# ABAIS
Arduino-based automated irrigation system

"Nowadays, irrigation systems are used in many agricultural areas and also gardens, greenhouses. However, most irrigation systems are very user-controlled. In this case the dependence on the user is high. In most simple systems, water needs of plants are determined by the user. Therefore, it can cause over-watering or inadequate watering of plants in wrong using. Many problems arise such as decay in plants, late flowering, fewer yields when irrigation was wrong. There are a lot of research in the field of agriculture, most of these focuses on irrigation with measurement. ABAIS that is Arduino-based automated irrigation system is also irrigation system with measurement. In addition, the ABAIS take own energy directly from the sun with solar panel and movement system. It is clear that solar energy is not used in most irrigation systems. The ABAIS is running the system with the energy obtained from the natural source of the sun and it keeps own energy in internal battery, this gives a noticeable advantage.
As in all irrigation systems, the main target of the ABAIS is the irrigation efficiency. The water status in the soil should be measured what happens. As in other projects, the soil moisture sensor takes on one of the most important roles in the project. Thus, when the soil needs water, the information is taken through the soil moisture sensor. Water should be checked frequently because water may be finished. Thanks to the water level sensor that we use in the ABAIS, this job is easily controlled without human need. Water saving is also an important feature. Therefore the water loss should be minimized and the efficiency of the water used should be increased. The water level sensor eliminates unnecessary following of the water supply and thanks to the soil moisture sensor, unnecessary use of water is eliminated. Also, when the occupancy rate of the water tank is followed up and found insufficient, it informs the user via SMS by other important sensors and modules that on the ABAIS. The target of the ABAIS is garden and potted plants. At this point, the ABAIS provides maximum productivity as well as simplicity and ease of use. So, the ABAIS is operated effectively and systematically."
